Pengeler/python uv example (#619)
ansys/pyhps: doc/source/examples/ex_python_uv.rst

.. _example_python_uv:

.. note::

    Go to the `bottom of this page`_ to download the ZIP file for the uv example.

Running arbitrary Python scripts on HPS
=======================================

> This example shows how arbitrary Python scripts can be run on HPS, by
> using `uv <https://docs.astral.sh/uv/>`__ to generate the required
> environments on the fly.
> 
> The example sets up a project that shall plot ``sin(x)`` using numpy and
> matplotlib, and then save the figure to a file.
> 
> The main feature enabling uv to take care of the environment setup is
> the metadata header present in the ``eval.py`` script, which defines the
> dependencies:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example shows how to run arbitrary Python scripts. The
`uv <https://docs.astral.sh/uv/>`__ package is used to generate the required
environments on the fly.

The example sets up a project that plots ``sin(x)`` using NumPy and
Matplotlib and then saves the figure to a file.

The metadata header present in the ``eval.py`` script, which defines the
dependencies, enables uv to take care of the environment setup:
```
Use active voice and present tense whenever possible.

.. code:: python

   # /// script
   # requires-python = "==3.12"
   # dependencies = [
   #     "numpy",
   #     "matplotlib"
   # ]
   # ///

> More information can be found `here
> (python.org) <https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/specifications/inline-script-metadata/#inline-script-metadata>`__
> and `here
> (astral.sh) <https://docs.astral.sh/uv/guides/scripts/#running-a-script-with-dependencies>`__.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, see `Inline script metadata
<https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/specifications/inline-script-metadata/#inline-script-metadata>`__
in the *Python Packaging User Guide* and `Running a script with dependencies <https://docs.astral.sh/uv/guides/scripts/#running-a-script-with-dependencies>`__
in the uv documentation.
```
You should not use "here" but rather the name of the article or topic that the link takes you to and the name of the guide/publication it is in.

Prerequisites
=============

In order for the example to run, ``uv`` must be installed and registered
on the scaler/evaluator. Installation instructions can be found
`here <https://docs.astral.sh/uv/getting-started/installation/>`__.

Once uv is installed, the application must be registered in the
scaler/evaluator with the following properties:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Property
     - Value
   * - Name
     - uv
   * - Version
     - 0.7.19
   * - Installation Path
     - /path/to/uv
   * - Executable
     - /path/to/uv/bin/uv

> Note that the version should be adjusted to the case at hand.

Reviewer: This sentence is rather formal and ambiguous. Consider rewriting:
Be sure to adjust the version to the one you have installed.

   index could then sit in a shared location, with node-local caching
   applied.
3. Use pre-generated virtual environments, see
   `here <https://docs.astral.sh/uv/reference/cli/#uv-venv>`__

In order to turn off network access, one can either set the
``UV_OFFLINE`` environment variable, or use the ``--offline`` flag with
many uv commands.

Running the example
===================

To run the example, execute the ``project_setup.py`` script, for example
via ``uv run project_setup.py``. This sets up a project with a number
of jobs, and each job shall generate a ``plot.png`` file.

Options
-------

The example supports the following command line arguments:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Flag
     - Example
     - Description
   * - ``-U``, ``--url``
     - ``--url=https://localhost:8443/hps``
     - URL of the target HPS instance
   * - ``-u``, ``--username``
     - ``--username=repuser``
     - Username to log into HPS
   * - ``-p``, ``--password``
     - ``--password=topSecret``
     - Password to log into HPS
   * - ``-j``, ``--num-jobs``
     - ``--num-jobs=10``
     - Number of jobs to generate

Files
-----

> The relevant files of the example are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Descriptions follow of the relevant example files.
```

The project creation script ``project_setup.py``. Handles all communication with the HPS instance,
defines the project and generates the jobs.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/python_uv/project_setup.py
    :language: python
    :lines: 23-
    :caption: project_setup.py

The script ``eval.py`` that is evaluated on HPS. Contains the code to plot a sine, and then save 
the figure.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/python_uv/eval.py
    :language: python
    :lines: 23-
    :caption: eval.py

> The execution script ``exec_script.py`` that uses uv to run the evaluation script.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The execution script, ``exec_script.py``, uses uv to run the evaluation script.
```
